Nonblocking Collectives (Draft) (#456)
openshmem-org/specification: content/nb_collectives_intro.tex

Reviewer: Why the particular list of supported ops?  fcollect seems easier than alltoall.  Reductions might be hard, but also among the most useful for overlap of communications and computation.

An \openshmem nonblocking collective operation, like a blocking collective
operation, is a group communication operation among the
participants of the team. All participants of the team are required to call the

> collective operation.

Reviewer 2: The "Team-based Collectives" section says:
```
All OpenSHMEM teams-based collective operations are blocking routines. [...]
Team-based collectives must occur in the same program order across all PEs in a team.
```
Do non-blocking collectives also need to occur in the same program order across all PEs in a team?

An \openshmem nonblocking collective operation, like a blocking collective
operation, is a group communication operation among the
participants of the team. All \acp{PE} in the team are required to call the
collective operation and each collective operation must be initiated in the same

> order across all \acp{PE} while the execution may be performed in any order.

Reviewer: Recommend: ...and collective operations must be initiated in the same order across all \acp{PE} while the executions may be performed in any order.

And this is already said in "collective ordering" in section 9.4 Team Management Routines

The language on this point for Team-based collectives is Team-based collectives must occur
in the same program order across all PEs in a team.  That seems  more clear to me.

\begin{enumerate}

\item Invocation semantics: Upon invocation of a nonblocking collective routine,
the operation is initiated and the routine returns without ensuring completion. All \acp{PE} in the team

> must call this routine with identical arguments.

Reviewer: ... must call this routine with identical arguments .. would not be true for collect, were it to be included.

\item Collective Types: The nonblocking variants supported include barrier all, alltoall,

> and broadcast collectives. Other collective operations such as

Reviewer 3: This unsupported collectives list is incomplete.

reductions, collect, fcollect, barrier, barrier all, alltoalls, sync, and sync all will not have nonblocking variants.

\item Completion semantics: \openshmem programs can learn the status of the collective operations
using the \FUNC{shmem\_req\_test} routine. The operation is completed after
a call to \FUNC{shmem\_req\_test} or a call to \FUNC{shmem\_req\_wait}.

> 

Reviewer 4: Similar to what @kwaters4 mentioned. Add something like "Completion of the operation can be observed through one or more calls to \FUNC{shmem\_req\_test} or a single call to \FUNC{shmem\_req\_wait}."

An \openshmem nonblocking collective operation, like blocking collective
operation, is a group communication operation among the
participants of the team. All participants of the team are required to call the
collective operation.

\begin{enumerate}

> \item Invocation semantics: Upon invocation of a collective routine interface,
> the operation is posted and returned immediately. All participants of the Team
> should call this routine.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
\item Invocation semantics: Upon invocation of a nonblocking collective routine,
the operation is initiated and the routine returns without ensuring completion. All participants of the Team
must call this routine with identical arguments.
```

\item Collective Types: The nonblocking variants supported include barrier, alltoall,
and broadcast collectives. Other collective operations such as
reductions, collect, barrier, alltoalls, and sync will not have nonblocking variants.

> 

Reviewer 2: Should `sync_all` be supported?  My hunch is it seems possibly useful... but lower priority.

An \openshmem nonblocking collective operation, like blocking collective
operation, is a group communication operation among the
participants of the team. All participants of the team are required to call the
collective operation.

\begin{enumerate}

\item Invocation semantics: Upon invocation of a collective routine interface,
the operation is posted and returned immediately. All participants of the Team
should call this routine.

\item Collective Types: The nonblocking variants supported include alltoall,

> broadcast, and reduction collectives. Other collective operations such as

Author: missing barrier

collect, barrier, alltoalls, and sync will not have nonblocking variants. The
reduction types supported are defined in Table \ref{teamreducetypes}.

\item Completion semantics:  \openshmem programs can learn the status of the collective operations
using the \FUNC{shmem\_req\_test} routine and can be completed using

> the \FUNC{shmem\_req\_wait} routine.

Reviewer 5: I don't see the definition of `shmem_req_wait` in this PR. Am I missing it?

Author: Is it not written, yet.

Author: Fixed

\item Threads: While using SHMEM\_THREAD\_MULTIPLE, the \openshmem
programs are allowed to call multiple collective operations on different threads
and the same Team. The collective operations invoked on different threads
are ordered by a user-provided tag. The user may choose to not order the
collective operations by using the library constant

> \CONST{SHMEM\_COLL\_UNORDERED} instead of specifying the tag.

Author: Can you ensure ordered update? (question from Brandon)

Author: Removed the tagged collective semantics, so no longer an issue.

An \openshmem nonblocking collective operation, like a blocking collective
operation, is a group communication operation among the
participants of the team. All participants of the team are required to call the
collective operation and the collective operations must occur in the same

> program order across all PEs in the team.

Reviewer 6: clarify initiation order vs execution order.

initiate in the same order across all PEs, executed in any order.

> program order across all PEs in the team.

Reviewer 6: MACRO for PEs

An \openshmem nonblocking collective operation, like a blocking collective
operation, is a group communication operation among the

> participants of the team. All participants of the team are required to call the

Reviewer 6: All participants -> All PEs in the team

Reviewer 6: REMEMBER MACRO (\acp(PE))
